=encoding utf8

=head1 VERSION

version 1.0

=head1 NAME

Net::Proxmox::VE - Pure perl API for Proxmox virtualisation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::Proxmox::VE;

    %args = (
        host     => 'proxmox.local.domain',
        password => 'barpassword',
        user     => 'root', # optional
        port     => 8006,   # optional
        realm    => 'pam',  # optional


    );

    $host = Net::Proxmox::VE->new(%args);

    $host->login() or die ('Couldnt log in to proxmox host');



=head1 DESCRIPTION

This Class provides the framework for talking to Proxmox VE 2.0 API instances.
This just provides a get/delete/put/post abstraction layer as methods on Proxmox VE REST API
This also handles the ticket headers required for authentication

More details on the API can be found here:
http://pve.proxmox.com/wiki/Proxmox_VE_API
http://pve.proxmox.com/pve2-api-doc/

This class provides the building blocks for someone wanting to use PHP to talk to Proxmox 2.0. Relatively simple piece of code, just provides a get/put/post/delete abstraction layer as methods on top of Proxmox's REST API, while also handling the Login Ticket headers required for authentication.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 api_version_check

Checks that the api we are talking to is at least version 2.0

Returns true if the api version is at least 2.0 (perl style true or false)

=head2 check_login_ticket

Verifies if the objects login ticket is valid and not expired

Returns true if valid
Returns false and undefines the login ticket if invalid

=head2 debug

Has a single optional argument of 1 or 0 representing enable or disable debugging.

Undef (ie no argument) leaves the debug status untouched, making this method call simply a query.

Returns the resultant debug status (perl style true or false)

=head2 delete

An action helper method that just takes a path as an argument and returns the
value of action with the DELETE method

=head2 get

An action helper method that just takes a path as an argument and returns the
value of action with the GET method

=head2 get_node_list

Returns the clusters node list from the object,
if thats not defined it calls reload_node_list and returns the node_list

=head2 login

Initiates the log in to the PVE Server using JSON API, and potentially obtains an Access Ticket.

Returns true if success

=head2 new

Creates the Net::Proxmox::VE object and returns it.

Examples...

  my $obj = Net::Proxmox::VE->new(%args);
  my $obj = Net::Proxmox::VE->new(\%args);

Valid arguments are...

=over 4

=item I<host>

Proxmox host instance to interact with. Required so no default.

=item I<username>

User name used for authentication. Defaults to 'root', optional.

=item I<password>

Pass word user for authentication. Required so no default.

=item I<port>

TCP port number used to by the Proxmox host instance. Defaults to 8006, optional.

=item I<realm>

Authentication realm to request against. Defaults to 'pam' (local auth), optional.

=item I<debug>

Enabling debugging of this API (not related to proxmox debugging in any way). Defaults to false, optional.

=back

=head2 post

An action helper method that takes two parameters:
path
hash ref to post data
your returned what action with the POST method returns

=head2 put

An action helper method that takes two parameters:
path
hash ref to post data
your returned what post returns

=head2 reload_node_list

gets and sets the list of nodes in the cluster into $self->{node_list}
returns false if there is no nodes listed or an arrayref is not returns from action

=head2 url_prefix

returns the url prefix used in the rest api calls

=head1 SUPPORT

=head1 AUTHORS

Brendan Beveridge <brendan@nodeintegration.com.au>,
Dean Hamstead <dean@fragfest.com.au>

